docs/applications/Central.md, before:

# Central

The _Central_ application delivers the _Control Center_ which allows to configure how the system behaves. It is split into three distinct categories.

## User-related options

This part of the control center shows settings that are related to the current user account:

```
> User Account
    > Set profile picture
    > Set nickname
```

## Computer-related options

This part shows settings that are related to the whole computer, affecting all users on it. Administrator privileges are required to access and change them.

```
> Date & Time
    > Set Date & Time
> Encryption
    > Encrypt|Decrypt storage
    > Change encryption password (disabled if storage is not encrypted yet)
    > Enable|Disable per-user encryption
> Users
    > Create new user
    > Create new administrator user
    > Create new supervised user
```

## Development-related options

This part show settings that are only available in [developer mode](../technical/dev-mode.md).

```
> Applications
    > Enable|Disable application proxies
```

Commit message:

Explain how applications sideloading work

docs/applications/Central.md, after:

# Central

The _Central_ application delivers the _Control Center_ which allows to configure how the system behaves. It is split into three distinct categories.

## User-related options

This part of the control center shows settings that are related to the current user account:

```
> User Account
    > Set profile picture
    > Set nickname
```

## Applications-related options

This part shows settings that are related to how applications can be installed and managed, as well as how they behave.

```
> Sideloading
    > Set sideloading mode (disabled, secure, unsecure)
```

## Computer-related options

This part shows settings that are related to the whole computer, affecting all users on it. Administrator privileges are required to access and change them.

```
> Date & Time
    > Set Date & Time
> Encryption
    > Encrypt|Decrypt storage
    > Change encryption password (disabled if storage is not encrypted yet)
    > Enable|Disable per-user encryption
> Users
    > Create new user
    > Create new administrator user
    > Create new supervised user
```

## Development-related options

This part show settings that are only available in [developer mode](../technical/dev-mode.md).

```
> Applications
    > Enable|Disable application proxies
```
