docs/specs/system-services/fsh.md, before:

# `sys::fsh` service

## Methods

### `0x01` REGISTER_OPENER

Register an application as an opener for a list of file types.

**Arguments:**

- File extensions to handle as a [simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [delimited strings](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)
- `0x30`: One of the provided extensions is empty
- `0x31`: At least one of the provided extensions is reserved to the system
- `0x32`: Client already handles at least one of the provided extensions

### `0x02` UNREGISTER_OPENER

Unregister an application as an opener for a list of file types.

**Argument:**

- File extensions to unhandle as a [simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [delimited strings](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)
- `0x30`: One of the provided extensions is empty
- `0x31`: Client does not currently handle at least one of the provided extensions

### `0x03` LIST_OPENERS

List the [file openers](../integration-services/file-openers.md) associated to a specific type of items.

The list is not ordered, it's up to the [file manager](../integration-services/file-managers.md) to determine the display order if multiple openers are found.

**Arguments:**

- Filesystem item's extension as a [delimited string](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

- [Simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [ANID](../applications-libraries.md#application-identifier) (8 bytes each)

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)

### `0x10` CHECK_ITEM_THUMBNAIL_CACHE

Check if a cached thumbnail exists for a given filesystem item to determine if another should be generated or not.

The cache policy is determined using internal criterias.

**Arguments:**

- [FSID](../filesystem.md#filesystem-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- [FEID](../filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)

**Return value:**

- Presence (1 byte): `0x01` if a thumbnail is present, `0x00` else

If a thumbnail is present, this is followed by:

- Thumbnail caching [timestamp](../kernel/data-structures.md#timestamps) (8 bytes)
- Thumbnail [TFEID](../filesystem.md#temporary-feid) (8 bytes)

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client is not a [file manager service](../integration-services/file-managers.md)
- `0x30`: Unknown FSID
- `0x31`: Unknown FEID

### `0x11` CACHE_ITEM_THUMBNAIL

Write a filesystem item's thumbnail in the cache.

If a thumbnail already exists in cache, it will be replaced by the new one.

The cache policy is determined using internal criterias.

**Arguments:**

- [FSID](../filesystem.md#filesystem-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- [FEID](../filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- Thumbnail as a [bitmap image](../kernel/data-structures.md#bitmap-images)

**Return value:**

- Thumbnail [TFEID](../filesystem.md#temporary-feid) (8 bytes)

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid bitmap data
- `0x20`: Client is not a [file manager service](../integration-services/file-managers.md)
- `0x30`: Unknown FSID
- `0x31`: Unknown FEID

Commit message:

Add description to the 'sys::fsh' service

docs/specs/system-services/fsh.md, after:

# `sys::fsh` service

The `sys::fsh` service is in charge of handling high-level filesystem operations, such as file associations and thumbnails generation.

- [Methods](#methods)
  - [`0x01` REGISTER_OPENER](#0x01-register_opener)
  - [`0x02` UNREGISTER_OPENER](#0x02-unregister_opener)
  - [`0x03` LIST_OPENERS](#0x03-list_openers)
  - [`0x10` CHECK_ITEM_THUMBNAIL_CACHE](#0x10-check_item_thumbnail_cache)
  - [`0x11` CACHE_ITEM_THUMBNAIL](#0x11-cache_item_thumbnail)

## Methods

### `0x01` REGISTER_OPENER

Register an application as an opener for a list of file types.

**Arguments:**

- File extensions to handle as a [simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [delimited strings](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)
- `0x30`: One of the provided extensions is empty
- `0x31`: At least one of the provided extensions is reserved to the system
- `0x32`: Client already handles at least one of the provided extensions

### `0x02` UNREGISTER_OPENER

Unregister an application as an opener for a list of file types.

**Argument:**

- File extensions to unhandle as a [simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [delimited strings](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)
- `0x30`: One of the provided extensions is empty
- `0x31`: Client does not currently handle at least one of the provided extensions

### `0x03` LIST_OPENERS

List the [file openers](../integration-services/file-openers.md) associated to a specific type of items.

The list is not ordered, it's up to the [file manager](../integration-services/file-managers.md) to determine the display order if multiple openers are found.

**Arguments:**

- Filesystem item's extension as a [delimited string](../kernel/data-structures.md#delimited-strings)

**Return value:**

- [Simple list](../kernel/data-structures.md#simple-lists) of [ANID](../applications-libraries.md#application-identifier) (8 bytes each)

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client does not expose a [file opening service](../integration-services/file-openers.md)

### `0x10` CHECK_ITEM_THUMBNAIL_CACHE

Check if a cached thumbnail exists for a given filesystem item to determine if another should be generated or not.

The cache policy is determined using internal criterias.

**Arguments:**

- [FSID](../filesystem.md#filesystem-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- [FEID](../filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)

**Return value:**

- Presence (1 byte): `0x01` if a thumbnail is present, `0x00` else

If a thumbnail is present, this is followed by:

- Thumbnail caching [timestamp](../kernel/data-structures.md#timestamps) (8 bytes)
- Thumbnail [TFEID](../filesystem.md#temporary-feid) (8 bytes)

**Errors:**

- `0x20`: Client is not a [file manager service](../integration-services/file-managers.md)
- `0x30`: Unknown FSID
- `0x31`: Unknown FEID

### `0x11` CACHE_ITEM_THUMBNAIL

Write a filesystem item's thumbnail in the cache.

If a thumbnail already exists in cache, it will be replaced by the new one.

The cache policy is determined using internal criterias.

**Arguments:**

- [FSID](../filesystem.md#filesystem-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- [FEID](../filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)
- Thumbnail as a [bitmap image](../kernel/data-structures.md#bitmap-images)

**Return value:**

- Thumbnail [TFEID](../filesystem.md#temporary-feid) (8 bytes)

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid bitmap data
- `0x20`: Client is not a [file manager service](../integration-services/file-managers.md)
- `0x30`: Unknown FSID
- `0x31`: Unknown FEID
