docs/SUMMARY.md, before:

# [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook) Summary

- [Foreword](FOREWORD.md)
- [Frequently-asked questions](FAQ.md)
- [Project](project/README.md)
  - [Roadmap](project/roadmap.md) - the project's roadmap
  - [Development](project/development.md) - how the project will be developped
  - [Hardware requirements](project/hw-requirements.md) - hardware required in order to install and run NightOS
- [Concepts](concepts/README.md)
  - [What are applications?](concepts/applications.md) - the way to run software on NightOS
  - [What are libraries?](concepts/libraries.md) - sharing identical behaviours between multiple applications
  - [What are users?](concepts/users.md) - sharing a computer between multiple persons
- [Features](features/README.md)
  - [The balancer](features/balancer.md) - improve performances by balancing processes' priority
  - [Crash saves](features/crash-saves.md) - prevent data loss at maximum with crash-proof data saving
  - [Domains](features/domains.md) - manage a network of computers
  - [Encryption](features/encryption.md) - encrypt the whole storage and individual user accounts
  - [Freeze-prevention system](features/freeze-prevention.md) - prevent the system from freezing when all RAM and CPU power are used
  - [Parental control](features/parental-control.md) - manage children access to the computer
  - [Sandboxes](features/sandboxes.md) - isolate applications to prevent them from harming important data
  - [Synchronization](features/synchronization.md) - synchronize settings between multiple computers
- [Technical](technical/README.md)
  - [Overview](technical/overview.md) - a global overview of the system
  - [The controller](technical/controller.md) - permissions management system
  - [Developer mode](technical/dev-mode.md) - enable powerful development options
  - [Devices](technical/devices.md) - manage hardware devices
  - [File formats](technical/file-formats.md) - description of all native file formats
  - [Integrity checker](technical/integrity-checker.md) - ensure the system hasn't been corrupted
  - [I/O manager](technical/io-manager.md) - manage input/output requests
  - [Multi-platform management](technical/multi-platform.md) - how the NightOS ecosystem can be used on other operating systems
  - [Performances](technical/performances.md) - system tweaks used to optimize general and specific-case performances
  - [Pre-compiling applications](technical/pre-compiling.md) - pre-compiling applications to improve installation time and size
  - [Processes](technical/processes.md) - low-level view of how code runs in a concurrent way
  - [The registry](technical/registry.md) - configure the system's behaviour and features
  - [Services](technical/services.md) - special processes that run in the background and allow other applications to perform specific tasks
  - [The shell](technical/shell.md) - the de-facto way to run complex and/or automatized tasks on NightOS
- [User Experience](ux/README.md)
  - [Desktop environments](ux/desktop-environment.md)
  - [Notifications](ux/notifications.md)
  - [Sound](ux/sound.md)
- [Specifications](specs/README.md)
  - [Applications and libraries](specs/applications-libraries.md) - what applications and libraries are
  - [Applications](specs/applications.md) - how applications are structured and behave
  - [Filesystem](specs/filesystem.md) - how the filesystem works
  - [Storage permissions map](specs/storage-permissions-map.md) - how permissions are managed on filesystem elements
  - [Libraries](specs/libraries.md) - what are libraries
  - [Permissions](specs/permissions.md) - list of applications' permissions
  - [Containers](specs/containers.md) - process isolation system
  - [The registry](specs/registry.md) - exhaustive specification of the registry's content
  - [Vocabulary](specs/vocabulary.md) - the list of NightOS-related terms
  - [The shell](specs/shell.md) - the native shell of NightOS
  - [Shell scripting](specs/shell-scripting.md) - [Hydre](technical/shell.md)'s scripting language
  - [Services](specs/services.md) - specifications about services work and behave
  - [Kernel](specs/kernel/README.md)
    - [Hardware](specs/kernel/hardware.md) - how the kernel interacts with hardware
    - [Memory](specs/kernel/memory.md) - memory organization and management
    - [Processes](specs/kernel/processes.md) - processes concept and management
    - [Scheduling](specs/kernel/scheduling.md) - tasks scheduling
    - [Data structures](specs/kernel/data-structures.md) - data structures used by the kernel to represent things in memory
    - [Kernel-process communication](specs/kernel/kpc.md) - how the kernel communicate with processes and vice-versa
    - [Inter-process communication](specs/kernel/ipc.md) - communication between processes
    - [Signals](specs/kernel/signals.md) - complete specification of [signals](specs/kernel/kpc.md)
    - [System calls](specs/kernel/syscalls.md) - complete specification of [system calls](specs/kernel/kpc.md)
  - [Integration services](specs/services/integration/README.md)
    - [Desktop environments](specs/services/integration/desktop-environments.md) - integration service for desktop environments
    - [File managers](specs/services/integration/file-managers.md) - integration service for file managers
    - [File openers](specs/services/integration/file-openers.md) - integration service for file openers
    - [Filesystem interfaces](specs/services/integration/filesystem-interfaces.md) - integration service for filesystem interfaces
  - [Driver services](specs/services/drivers/README.md)
    - [Storage driver service](specs/services/drivers/storage.md)
  - [System services](specs/services/system/README.md)
    - [`sys::fs`](specs/services/system/fs.md)
    - [`sys::fsh`](specs/services/system/fsh.md)
    - [`sys::hw`](specs/services/system/hw.md)
    - [`sys::perm`](specs/services/system/perm.md)
    - [`sys::net`](specs/services/system/net.md)
    - [`sys::crypto`](specs/services/system/crypto.md)
    - [`sys::crashsave`](specs/services/system/crashsave.md)
    - [`sys::flow`](specs/services/system/flow.md)
    - [`sys::hydre`](specs/services/system/hydre.md)
    - [`sys::app`](specs/services/system/app.md)
    - [`sys::process`](specs/services/system/process.md)
- [Applications](applications/README.md)
    - [Astral](applications/Astral.md) : The complete toolchain allowing to build applications
    - [BareEnv](applications/BareEnv.md) : Text-based desktop environment
    - [Blackhole](applications/Blackhole.md) : Archives manager
    - [Central](applications/Central.md) : Settings
    - [Cloudy](applications/Cloudy.md) : Backup & Sync manager
    - [Comet](applications/Comet.md) : File manager
    - [Gravity](applications/Gravity.md) : Text editor
    - [Locky](applications/Locky.md) : System's encryption tool, with the ability to manage encrypted archives and volumes
    - [Milkshake](applications/Milkshake.md) : Video player
    - [Monitor](applications/Monitor.md) : Monitor opened applications, processes, CPU/RAM usage, etc.
    - [Nova](applications/Nova.md) : Desktop environment
    - [Particle](applications/Particle.md) : A complete IDE to make applications
    - [Pluton](applications/Pluton.md) : Terminal
    - [Postal](applications/Postal.md) : An e-mail client
    - [Reader](applications/Reader.md) : A complete e-book reader with many supported formats and options
    - [Registry](applications/Registry.md) : View and edit the registry (for advanced users)
    - [Rocket](applications/Rocket.md) : Web browser
    - [ShootingStar](applications/ShootingStar.md) : Pictures viewer and simple editor
    - [Skyer](applications/Skyer.md) : Applications manager
    - [Sonata](applications/Sonata.md) : Music player (with Hi-Res support and options)
    - [Stellar](applications/Stellar.md) : Application store
    - [Thinker](applications/Thinker.md) : Notes and task lists manager
    - [TimeTravel](applications/TimeTravel.md) : Backup and versioning program
    - [Vortex](applications/Vortex.md) : Firewall

Commit message:

Add missing link to 'crash saves' in SUMMARY

docs/SUMMARY.md, after:

# [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook) Summary

- [Foreword](FOREWORD.md)
- [Frequently-asked questions](FAQ.md)
- [Project](project/README.md)
  - [Roadmap](project/roadmap.md) - the project's roadmap
  - [Development](project/development.md) - how the project will be developped
  - [Hardware requirements](project/hw-requirements.md) - hardware required in order to install and run NightOS
- [Concepts](concepts/README.md)
  - [What are applications?](concepts/applications.md) - the way to run software on NightOS
  - [What are libraries?](concepts/libraries.md) - sharing identical behaviours between multiple applications
  - [What are users?](concepts/users.md) - sharing a computer between multiple persons
- [Features](features/README.md)
  - [The balancer](features/balancer.md) - improve performances by balancing processes' priority
  - [Crash saves](features/crash-saves.md) - prevent data loss at maximum with crash-proof data saving
  - [Domains](features/domains.md) - manage a network of computers
  - [Encryption](features/encryption.md) - encrypt the whole storage and individual user accounts
  - [Freeze-prevention system](features/freeze-prevention.md) - prevent the system from freezing when all RAM and CPU power are used
  - [Parental control](features/parental-control.md) - manage children access to the computer
  - [Sandboxes](features/sandboxes.md) - isolate applications to prevent them from harming important data
  - [Synchronization](features/synchronization.md) - synchronize settings between multiple computers
- [Technical](technical/README.md)
  - [Overview](technical/overview.md) - a global overview of the system
  - [The controller](technical/controller.md) - permissions management system
  - [Developer mode](technical/dev-mode.md) - enable powerful development options
  - [Devices](technical/devices.md) - manage hardware devices
  - [File formats](technical/file-formats.md) - description of all native file formats
  - [Integrity checker](technical/integrity-checker.md) - ensure the system hasn't been corrupted
  - [I/O manager](technical/io-manager.md) - manage input/output requests
  - [Multi-platform management](technical/multi-platform.md) - how the NightOS ecosystem can be used on other operating systems
  - [Performances](technical/performances.md) - system tweaks used to optimize general and specific-case performances
  - [Pre-compiling applications](technical/pre-compiling.md) - pre-compiling applications to improve installation time and size
  - [Processes](technical/processes.md) - low-level view of how code runs in a concurrent way
  - [The registry](technical/registry.md) - configure the system's behaviour and features
  - [Services](technical/services.md) - special processes that run in the background and allow other applications to perform specific tasks
  - [The shell](technical/shell.md) - the de-facto way to run complex and/or automatized tasks on NightOS
- [User Experience](ux/README.md)
  - [Desktop environments](ux/desktop-environment.md)
  - [Notifications](ux/notifications.md)
  - [Sound](ux/sound.md)
- [Specifications](specs/README.md)
  - [Applications and libraries](specs/applications-libraries.md) - what applications and libraries are
  - [Applications](specs/applications.md) - how applications are structured and behave
  - [Filesystem](specs/filesystem.md) - how the filesystem works
  - [Storage permissions map](specs/storage-permissions-map.md) - how permissions are managed on filesystem elements
  - [Libraries](specs/libraries.md) - what are libraries
  - [Permissions](specs/permissions.md) - list of applications' permissions
  - [Containers](specs/containers.md) - process isolation system
  - [The registry](specs/registry.md) - exhaustive specification of the registry's content
  - [Vocabulary](specs/vocabulary.md) - the list of NightOS-related terms
  - [The shell](specs/shell.md) - the native shell of NightOS
  - [Shell scripting](specs/shell-scripting.md) - [Hydre](technical/shell.md)'s scripting language
  - [Crash saves](specs/crash-saves.md) - what are crash saves and how they are handled
  - [Services](specs/services.md) - specifications about services work and behave
  - [Kernel](specs/kernel/README.md)
    - [Hardware](specs/kernel/hardware.md) - how the kernel interacts with hardware
    - [Memory](specs/kernel/memory.md) - memory organization and management
    - [Processes](specs/kernel/processes.md) - processes concept and management
    - [Scheduling](specs/kernel/scheduling.md) - tasks scheduling
    - [Data structures](specs/kernel/data-structures.md) - data structures used by the kernel to represent things in memory
    - [Kernel-process communication](specs/kernel/kpc.md) - how the kernel communicate with processes and vice-versa
    - [Inter-process communication](specs/kernel/ipc.md) - communication between processes
    - [Signals](specs/kernel/signals.md) - complete specification of [signals](specs/kernel/kpc.md)
    - [System calls](specs/kernel/syscalls.md) - complete specification of [system calls](specs/kernel/kpc.md)
  - [Integration services](specs/services/integration/README.md)
    - [Desktop environments](specs/services/integration/desktop-environments.md) - integration service for desktop environments
    - [File managers](specs/services/integration/file-managers.md) - integration service for file managers
    - [File openers](specs/services/integration/file-openers.md) - integration service for file openers
    - [Filesystem interfaces](specs/services/integration/filesystem-interfaces.md) - integration service for filesystem interfaces
  - [Driver services](specs/services/drivers/README.md)
    - [Storage driver service](specs/services/drivers/storage.md)
  - [System services](specs/services/system/README.md)
    - [`sys::fs`](specs/services/system/fs.md)
    - [`sys::fsh`](specs/services/system/fsh.md)
    - [`sys::hw`](specs/services/system/hw.md)
    - [`sys::perm`](specs/services/system/perm.md)
    - [`sys::net`](specs/services/system/net.md)
    - [`sys::crypto`](specs/services/system/crypto.md)
    - [`sys::crashsave`](specs/services/system/crashsave.md)
    - [`sys::flow`](specs/services/system/flow.md)
    - [`sys::hydre`](specs/services/system/hydre.md)
    - [`sys::app`](specs/services/system/app.md)
    - [`sys::process`](specs/services/system/process.md)
- [Applications](applications/README.md)
    - [Astral](applications/Astral.md) : The complete toolchain allowing to build applications
    - [BareEnv](applications/BareEnv.md) : Text-based desktop environment
    - [Blackhole](applications/Blackhole.md) : Archives manager
    - [Central](applications/Central.md) : Settings
    - [Cloudy](applications/Cloudy.md) : Backup & Sync manager
    - [Comet](applications/Comet.md) : File manager
    - [Gravity](applications/Gravity.md) : Text editor
    - [Locky](applications/Locky.md) : System's encryption tool, with the ability to manage encrypted archives and volumes
    - [Milkshake](applications/Milkshake.md) : Video player
    - [Monitor](applications/Monitor.md) : Monitor opened applications, processes, CPU/RAM usage, etc.
    - [Nova](applications/Nova.md) : Desktop environment
    - [Particle](applications/Particle.md) : A complete IDE to make applications
    - [Pluton](applications/Pluton.md) : Terminal
    - [Postal](applications/Postal.md) : An e-mail client
    - [Reader](applications/Reader.md) : A complete e-book reader with many supported formats and options
    - [Registry](applications/Registry.md) : View and edit the registry (for advanced users)
    - [Rocket](applications/Rocket.md) : Web browser
    - [ShootingStar](applications/ShootingStar.md) : Pictures viewer and simple editor
    - [Skyer](applications/Skyer.md) : Applications manager
    - [Sonata](applications/Sonata.md) : Music player (with Hi-Res support and options)
    - [Stellar](applications/Stellar.md) : Application store
    - [Thinker](applications/Thinker.md) : Notes and task lists manager
    - [TimeTravel](applications/TimeTravel.md) : Backup and versioning program
    - [Vortex](applications/Vortex.md) : Firewall
