docs/technical/README.md, before:

# Technical

This folder contains technical documents which essential describe low-level parts of NightOS.

- [The controller](controller.md) - permissions management system
- [Developer mode](dev-mode.md) - enable powerful development options
- [File formats](file-formats.md) - description of all native file formats
- [Integrity checker](integrity-checker.md) - ensure the system hasn't been corrupted
- [I/O manager](io-manager.md) - manage input/output requests
- [Inter-process communication](ipc.md) - communication between processes
- [Multi-platform management](multi-platform.md) - how the NightOS ecosystem can be used on other operating systems
- [Performances](performances.md) - system tweaks used to optimize general and specific-case performances
- [Pre-compiling applications](pre-compiling.md) - pre-compiling applications to improve installation time and size
- [Processes](processes.md) - low-level view of how code runs in a concurrent way
- [The registry](registry.md) - configure the system's behaviour and features
- [Services](services.md) - special processes that run in the background and allow other applications to perform specific tasks
- [The shell](shell.md) - the de-facto way to run complex and/or automatized tasks on NightOS

Commit message:

Add a global system overview to the existing documentation

docs/technical/README.md, after:

# Technical

This folder contains technical documents which essential describe low-level parts of NightOS.

A global overview of the system can be found in the [overview document](overview.md).

- [The controller](controller.md) - permissions management system
- [Developer mode](dev-mode.md) - enable powerful development options
- [File formats](file-formats.md) - description of all native file formats
- [Integrity checker](integrity-checker.md) - ensure the system hasn't been corrupted
- [I/O manager](io-manager.md) - manage input/output requests
- [Inter-process communication](ipc.md) - communication between processes
- [Multi-platform management](multi-platform.md) - how the NightOS ecosystem can be used on other operating systems
- [Performances](performances.md) - system tweaks used to optimize general and specific-case performances
- [Pre-compiling applications](pre-compiling.md) - pre-compiling applications to improve installation time and size
- [Processes](processes.md) - low-level view of how code runs in a concurrent way
- [The registry](registry.md) - configure the system's behaviour and features
- [Services](services.md) - special processes that run in the background and allow other applications to perform specific tasks
- [The shell](shell.md) - the de-facto way to run complex and/or automatized tasks on NightOS
