docs/specs/file-manager.md, before:

# File Manager

- [File manager paths](#file-manager-paths)
- [Methods](#methods)
  - [`0x10` OPEN_ITEM](#0x10-open_item)
  - [`0x11` IS_ITEM_OPENABLE](#0x11-is_item_openable)
  - [`0x20` GET_THUMBNAIL](#0x20-get_thumbnail)
- [Filesystem openers](#filesystem-openers)
  - [Methods](#methods-1)
    - [`0x10` OPEN_ITEM](#0x10-open_item-1)
    - [`0x20` GENERATE_THUMBNAIL](#0x20-generate_thumbnail)
    - [`0x21` CAN_GENERATE_THUMBNAIL](#0x21-can_generate_thumbnail)

A file manager is an application which can manage the filesystem's content. It does not have any restriction on its user interface, but needs to expose a domain service named `SYS_FMAN` with standardized methods.

Applications can indicate themselves as file manager by specifying an `SYS_FMAN` service in their [manifest](applications/manifest.md).

The end user chooses a single file manager (called the _default_ file manager) between all available ones, whose service will be used by other applications.

## File manager paths

Paths destinated to file managers are called _file manager paths_ (FMP) and can be encoded with either:

- A `0x00` status code (1 byte)
- [FEID](filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)

Or:

- A `0x01` status code (1 byte)
- A `NULL`-terminated UTF-8 path string (up to 65535 bytes)

## Methods

### `0x10` OPEN_ITEM

Open a filesystem item.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: User cancelled the opening
- `0x31`: Could not find an application to open the provided item
- `0x32`: Failed to open the provided item due to an I/O error
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

### `0x11` IS_ITEM_OPENABLE

Check if a filesystem item could be opened without user interaction.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- `0x02` if the file could be opened without user interaction, `0x01` if it couldn't, `0x00` if the file couldn't be opened at all

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

### `0x20` GET_THUMBNAIL

Get the thumbnail for a specific item.

The thumbnail should be generated using the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md) system service, which will provide the cached thumbnail (if any) and else ask for a thumbnail buffer, which will be put in the cache if relevant.

**Arguments:**

- Refresh mode (1 byte): `0x00` to get the current thumbnail or a cached one, `0x01` to force generating a new thumbnail for the item
- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- [Temporary FEID](filesystem.md#temporary-feid) to the thumbnail

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: The thumbnail generator failed
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

## Filesystem openers

A filesystem opener is an application which can associate open specific items. It exposes a `SYS_FSOP` service with the following architecture.

The list of openers can be viewed and modified through the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md).

### Methods

#### `0x10` OPEN_ITEM

Open a filesystem item.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: User cancelled the opening
- `0x31`: Could not find an application to open the provided item
- `0x32`: Failed to open the provided item due to an I/O error
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

#### `0x20` GENERATE_THUMBNAIL

Generate a thumbnail for a given filesystem item.

The thumbnail should be generated using the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md) system service, which will provide the cached thumbnail (if any) and else ask for a thumbnail buffer, which will be put in the cache if relevant.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- [Temporary FEID](filesystem.md#temporary-feid)

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x20`: This application does not support thumbnail generation for this item type
- `0x30`: Thumbnail could not be generated from the item as its content is invalid
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

#### `0x21` CAN_GENERATE_THUMBNAIL

Check if the application can generate a thumbnail for a specific filesystem item.  
If it cannot, the default file manager will be in charge of providing a placeholder _or_ using an alternative thumbnail generator.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- `0x01` if the application can generate a thumbnail for the provided filesystem item, `0x00` else

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: Thumbnail could not be generated from the item as its content is invalid
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

Commit message:

Introduce interface windows (DEA, context menus, ...)

docs/specs/file-manager.md, after:

# File Manager

- [File manager paths](#file-manager-paths)
- [Methods](#methods)
  - [`0x10` OPEN_ITEM](#0x10-open_item)
  - [`0x11` IS_ITEM_OPENABLE](#0x11-is_item_openable)
  - [`0x20` GET_THUMBNAIL](#0x20-get_thumbnail)
  - [`0xA0` CONTEXT_MENU](#0xa0-context_menu)
- [Filesystem openers](#filesystem-openers)
  - [Methods](#methods-1)
    - [`0x10` OPEN_ITEM](#0x10-open_item-1)
    - [`0x20` GENERATE_THUMBNAIL](#0x20-generate_thumbnail)
    - [`0x21` CAN_GENERATE_THUMBNAIL](#0x21-can_generate_thumbnail)

A file manager is an application which can manage the filesystem's content. It does not have any restriction on its user interface, but needs to expose a domain service named `SYS_FMAN` with standardized methods.

Applications can indicate themselves as file manager by specifying an `SYS_FMAN` service in their [manifest](applications/manifest.md).

The end user chooses a single file manager (called the _default_ file manager) between all available ones, whose service will be used by other applications.

## File manager paths

Paths destinated to file managers are called _file manager paths_ (FMP) and can be encoded with either:

- A `0x00` status code (1 byte)
- [FEID](filesystem.md#element-unique-identifier) (8 bytes)

Or:

- A `0x01` status code (1 byte)
- A `NULL`-terminated UTF-8 path string (up to 65535 bytes)

## Methods

### `0x10` OPEN_ITEM

Open a filesystem item.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: User cancelled the opening
- `0x31`: Could not find an application to open the provided item
- `0x32`: Failed to open the provided item due to an I/O error
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

### `0x11` IS_ITEM_OPENABLE

Check if a filesystem item could be opened without user interaction.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- `0x02` if the file could be opened without user interaction, `0x01` if it couldn't, `0x00` if the file couldn't be opened at all

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

### `0x20` GET_THUMBNAIL

Get the thumbnail for a specific item.

The thumbnail should be generated using the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md) system service, which will provide the cached thumbnail (if any) and else ask for a thumbnail buffer, which will be put in the cache if relevant.

**Arguments:**

- Refresh mode (1 byte): `0x00` to get the current thumbnail or a cached one, `0x01` to force generating a new thumbnail for the item
- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- [Temporary FEID](filesystem.md#temporary-feid) to the thumbnail

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: The thumbnail generator failed
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

### `0xA0` CONTEXT_MENU

Generate a context menu for a specific filesystem item. Used by the DEA.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- [Interface window](../ux/desktop-environment.md#interface-windows) identifier (8 bytes)

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: User cancelled the opening
- `0x31`: Could not find an application to open the provided item
- `0x32`: Failed to open the provided item due to an I/O error
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

## Filesystem openers

A filesystem opener is an application which can associate open specific items. It exposes a `SYS_FSOP` service with the following architecture.

The list of openers can be viewed and modified through the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md).

### Methods

#### `0x10` OPEN_ITEM

Open a filesystem item.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

_None_

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: User cancelled the opening
- `0x31`: Could not find an application to open the provided item
- `0x32`: Failed to open the provided item due to an I/O error
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

#### `0x20` GENERATE_THUMBNAIL

Generate a thumbnail for a given filesystem item.

The thumbnail should be generated using the [`sys::fs`](services/fs.md) system service, which will provide the cached thumbnail (if any) and else ask for a thumbnail buffer, which will be put in the cache if relevant.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- [Temporary FEID](filesystem.md#temporary-feid)

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x20`: This application does not support thumbnail generation for this item type
- `0x30`: Thumbnail could not be generated from the item as its content is invalid
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error

#### `0x21` CAN_GENERATE_THUMBNAIL

Check if the application can generate a thumbnail for a specific filesystem item.  
If it cannot, the default file manager will be in charge of providing a placeholder _or_ using an alternative thumbnail generator.

**Arguments:**

- [FMP](#file-manager-paths)

**Answer:**

- `0x01` if the application can generate a thumbnail for the provided filesystem item, `0x00` else

**Errors:**

- `0x10`: Invalid FMP
- `0x11`: Could not find the provided item
- `0x30`: Thumbnail could not be generated from the item as its content is invalid
- `0xF0`: Unspecified error
